religious people thanking God for these invisible interventions
You get, you find a parking space that just a second ago wasn't there, and you thank God for, easing your, the various transitions in your day, or more seriously, you, you get a diagnosis of cancer, but you get this miraculous remission
You got the house arrest of Galileo as kind of one of the final moments here where,
who won't look through his telescope,
that death is an illusion, and that if you're a good Christian, you get everything you want after you die.
when we have a US president who says he, in the darkness of his closed eyes, he consulted his creator and formed an intuition about whether to go to war.
there's some distance between what people profess to believe and what they really believe. But when people really, really believe these things,
really believe in the power of prayer. Because if you really believe in the power of prayer,
then that has consequences, actual or potential consequences.
pilot who really believes in the power of prayer, who will fly into a thunderstorm knowing that it's, it's certainly elevating the risk of catastrophe for himself and all his passengers, but No, no,
he knows God's riding shotgun with him. Because he's just a true believer.
And faith in God really does do a lot of work for people who really have it. Especially around the phenomenon of death and bereavement. When you're contemplating your own death or the death of someone you love and you sincerely believe that death is an illusion, and that you not only do you not lose anything of importance when you die or when someone close to you dies, that person gets everything they want and they get it for eternity
And you will be reunited with your child or your mother or whoever it is in a few short years, and you'll be on the right hand of Jesus, and there's just— there is no problem
This, this universe is just set up to reward and console you in the end
That is, if you espouse the right opinions while alive, in those crucial moments while alive, even on death row, even if you've, murdered and raped your way through life and, ordered a chicken dinner as your final meal, as long as you come to Jesus in those last moments, if that's your faith,
who's done as much as anyone, uh, and perhaps more than anyone in American society to, to get us into the end zone where we now have gay marriage being the law of the land. I mean, he, you know, he almost did that single-handedly to my eye.
he and I have debated these issues, and he can't, this— any—
evangelical Christians joining an obviously unchristian personality cult so as to ram through their theocratic agenda.
there's a love for Trump that is sincere. It's not just— they're not just using him as a battering ram.
They really do admire him deeply.
it's unreasoning and
Even when it is in fact a reductio and they're in conflict with themselves and they just refuse to acknowledge it
And so they've kicked themselves loose of the earth and
They would certainly claim to be religious.
and pretend to care about being Christian in the US at this moment, and you have something like fully half who are really will check many or all of the boxes to attest to their belief. It's more than half.
He's kind of taken the Obama line of like, you're saying, listen, kids, like, this is not— you know, there are bigger problems than pronouns or whatever.
he's like, he's someone whose coverage of Black Lives Matter,
if you ask him, do you think Jesus will be returning to earth to raise the living and the dead? I am pretty sure he would say yes.
would say yes to that question.
They might be Christian, they might be like, listen, I love the Bible, it gives me gives me a great moral framework, gives my kids a great moral framework. This is the tradition I'm identified with. This is all super important to me. But that's kind of as far as it goes.
the number of people who will bite the bullet on the core doctrine and say, yeah, I think Jesus is going to come back and raise the dead.
